TITLE: How can I delete or rename a conversation?
URL: https://support.claude.com/en/articles/8230524-how-can-i-delete-or-rename-a-conversation

How can I delete or rename a conversation? | Claude Help Center Skip to main content 
 

 API Docs Release Notes How to Get Support English Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 한국어 Português Pусский 简体中文 Español 繁體中文 English 

 

 API Docs Release Notes How to Get Support English Français Deutsch Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 한국어 Português Pусский 简体中文 Español 繁體中文 English 

 

 Search for articles... 

 

 All Collections 

 Claude 

 Conversation management 

 How can I delete or rename a conversation?
 

 How can I delete or rename a conversation?

 March 16, 2026 

 Table of contents
 

 Deleting and renaming individual conversations 
 Deleting conversations in bulk 

 This article is about our consumer products (e.g. Claude Free, Claude Pro). For our commercial products (e.g. Claude for Work, Claude API), see here . 

 

 Deleting and renaming individual conversations

 To delete or rename an individual conversation:

 Navigate to the conversation you want to delete or rename.

 Click on the name of the conversation at the top of the screen.

 Select either "Delete" or "Rename" from the options that appear:

 
 
 

 Deleting conversations in bulk

 To delete multiple conversations at once:

 Navigate to your chat history by clicking "Chats" on the left sidebar.

 Hover over the conversations you want to delete, and check the selection box that appears.

 Once you've selected the conversations to delete, click on the "Delete Selected" button.

 
 Related Articles
 How do I view and sign your Data Processing Addendum (DPA)? 
 
 
 How can I delete my Claude account? 
 
 
 How can I create and manage projects? 
 
 
 Can you delete data that I sent via Team and Enterprise plans? 
 
 
 Configure custom data retention controls for Enterprise plans 
 
 
 

 

 Did this answer your question? 😞 😐 😃 
 
 Table of contents
 

 Deleting and renaming individual conversations 
 Deleting conversations in bulk 

 
 

 Product 
 Research 
 Company 
 News 
 Careers 
 

 Terms of Service - Consumer 
 Terms of Service - Commercial 
 Privacy Policy 
 Usage Policy 
 Responsible Disclosure Policy 
 Compliance
